# $Id: gx-check-index.8.pod,v 1.5 2007-01-01 13:01:35-08 kst Exp $
# $Source: /home/kst/gx-map-redacted/doc/gx-check-index.8.pod,v $

=for comment
Make sure the license text appears in the generated man pages.

=begin roff

.\" @Copyright@
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2007 The Regents of the University of California. All
.\" rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are
.\" met:
.\"
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\" notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\"
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\" notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\" documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\"
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this
.\" software must display the following acknowledgement: This product
.\" includes software developed by the Advanced Cyberinfrastructure
.\" Laboratory at the San Diego Supercomputer Center and its contributors.
.\"
.\" 4. Neither the name of the Center nor the names of its contributors
.\" may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\" without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS''
.\" AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO,
.\" THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR
.\" PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS
.\" BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR
.\" CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF
.\" SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR
.\" BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY,
.\" WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE
.\" OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN
.\" IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\" @Copyright@

=end roff

=head1 NAME

gx-check-index - Check for updates in a CA index file

=head1 SYNOPSIS

S<gx-check-index -help>

S<gx-check-index -version>

S<gx-check-index [options]>

=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<gx-check-index>, part of the B<gx-map> system, is an administrative
command.  It checks for updates in a certificate authority's index
file, and invokes the B<gx-request> command as needed for any changes.
This allows DNs issued by a CA to be entered automatically into one
or more F<grid-mapfile>s without further user or administrator action.

The B<gx-check-index> command should be invoked either from a cron
job or via the B<gx-cron-job> command.

=head1 OPTIONS

Option processing is done using the Perl B<Getopt::Long> module.

Options may be specified with a single or double leading '-' character.
Option names may be abbreviated to whatever is unique.  Arguments may
be separated either by a blank or by an '=' character.  For example,
"-foobar 42", "--foobar=42", and "-foob 42" would all be equivalent.

=over

=item B<-help>

Display a usage message and exit.

=item B<-version>

Display the software version number and exit.

=item B<-ca> I<name>

The CA to be handled.  This is mandatory.

The CA name can be given either as a hexadecimal hash value (such
as F<3deda549> or F<b89793e4>) or as a short name (such as F<sdsc>
or F<npaci>).  There must be a F<cadesc> file for the CA in the
F<etc/gx-map/ca-config> subdirectory of the B<gx-map> installation; the
hash or short name is a component of the name of the F<cadesc> file.

=item B<-index> I<index>

The name of the index file.  This is mandatory.

This can be specified either as a local file name (recommended)
or as a URL.

The index file must contain certain information; see the B<INDEX FILE>
section below.

=item B<-dryrun>

Don't perform updates.  This is intended for testing only.

=item B<-debugging>

Enable debugging output.  This is intended for testing only.

=back

=head1 INDEX FILE

Some Certificate Authorities (CAs) maintain a plain-text index file,
containing information about all certificates that have been issued.

The format of this index file is specified by the B<OpenSSL> software
package, so most CAs probably have one, though it may be kept hidden.

The B<gx-check-index> command should be run locally at the CA's site.
The index file may be specified as a URL, but it's usually better
to use a local file name.  (The contents of the index file may be
considered sensitive information).

The B<gx-check-index> command maintains a saved copy of the index
file, and looks for changes between its saved copy and the current
version.  It assumes that any DN with a "/UID=..." field is for a user
certificate; if the CA issues user certificates with no "/UID=..." field,
B<gx-ca-update> will not work.  It also assumes that the argument to
the "/UID=..." field is a Unix username; if this is not the case you
should not attempt to use B<gx-check-index>.

=head1 SECURITY

You must make sure that the specified index file is valid for the CA.
If an attacker is able to create a forged index file, it could break
system security.

=head1 SEE ALSO

gx-map(7), gx-request(1), gx-cron-job(8)

=head1 AUTHOR

Keith Thompson, San Diego Supercomputer Center, <kst@sdsc.edu>

=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

See the file F<LICENSE> in the B<gx-map> distribution, installed in
the F<etc/gx-map> subdirectory.
