# $Id: gx-cleanup-logs.8.pod,v 1.3 2007-01-01 13:01:35-08 kst Exp $
# $Source: /home/kst/gx-map-redacted/doc/gx-cleanup-logs.8.pod,v $

=for comment
Make sure the license text appears in the generated man pages.

=begin roff

.\" @Copyright@
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2007 The Regents of the University of California. All
.\" rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are
.\" met:
.\"
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\" notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\"
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\" notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\" documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\"
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this
.\" software must display the following acknowledgement: This product
.\" includes software developed by the Advanced Cyberinfrastructure
.\" Laboratory at the San Diego Supercomputer Center and its contributors.
.\"
.\" 4. Neither the name of the Center nor the names of its contributors
.\" may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\" without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS''
.\" AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO,
.\" THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR
.\" PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS
.\" BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR
.\" CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF
.\" SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR
.\" BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY,
.\" WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE
.\" OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN
.\" IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\" @Copyright@

=end roff

=head1 NAME

gx-cleanup-logs - Clean up the F<requests.log> file

=head1 SYNOPSIS

S<gx-cleanup-logs -help>

S<gx-cleanup-logs -version>

S<gx-cleanup-logs [options] [files]>

=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<gx-cleanup-logs>, part of the B<gx-map> system, is an administrative
command.  It reads one or more existing F<requests.log> files (or
stdin if no file name is specified).  It writes to stdout a merged
F<requests.log> file with redundant requests commented out or deleted.

=head1 OPTIONS

Option processing is done using the Perl B<Getopt::Long> module.

Options may be specified with a single or double leading '-' character.
Option names may be abbreviated to whatever is unique.  Arguments may
be separated either by a blank or by an '=' character.  For example,
"-foobar 42", "--foobar=42", and "-foob 42" would all be equivalent.

=over

=item B<-help>

Display a usage message and exit.

=item B<-version>

Display the software version number and exit.

=item B<-merge-only>

Merge and sort input records; don't delete anything.

=item B<-delete>

Delete redundant requests (the default is to comment them out).

=item B<-sdsc>

Delete requests for SDSC certificates without SOURCE=SDSC-CA.  This is
specific to the San Diego Supercomputer Center.

=item B<-debugging>

Enable debugging output.

=back

=head1 USAGE

The F<requests.log> file can grow very large over time.  Each request,
entered either by a user or automatically, is appended to the
F<requests.log> file, which must be re-processed every time a new
F<grid-mapfile> needs to be generated.

In many cases, the F<requests.log> file contains redundant information.
For example, if a mapping is added and then removed, the "add" and
"remove" requests could both be deleted.

The B<gx-cleanup-logs> command is designed to remove redundant
information from a F<requests.log> file.  It should delete (or comment
out) all "remove", "remove-user", and "remove-dn" requests, leaving
only those "add" requests that are currently active.

The B<gx-cleanup-logs> command should be considered I<experimental>.

There is currently no mechanism for applying this command
automatically.  If the size of the F<requests.log> file hasn't become
a problem, I recommend leaving it alone.  If it does become a problem
(i.e., your system is spending an inordinate amount of time re-scanning
the file), you can B<carefully> do the following:

1. Suspend the cron jobs (you don't want the system trying to
perform updates while you're working on it).

2. Save copies of your existing F<requests.log> file and of your
F<grid-mapfile>.  Note the ownership and permissions for the existing
F<requests.log> file.  Consider also saving a copy of a F<grid-mapfile>
generated by "B<gx-gen-mapfile -all>".

3. Use B<gx-cleanup-logs> to generate a new, smaller F<requests.log>
file from your existing one.  You can use the B<-delete> option if you
want the resulting F<requests.log> file to be as small as possible.
By default, redundant information will be commented out; this should
still save significant time, and the information can be valuable as
an audit trail.

4. Use B<gx-gen-mapfile> to generate a new B<grid-mapfile>, and compare
it to your previous one.  You can also use B<"gx-gen-mapfile -all>"
if you saved a copy of the output of that command.  If the "before"
and "after" files are inconsistent, something went wrong.  If it's a
problem with the B<gx-cleanup-logs> command, please contact the author.

5. If everything worked properly, make sure the new requests.log file
has the same ownership and permissions as the old one and re-enable
the cron jobs.

=head1 SEE ALSO

gx-map(7), gx-map-requests-log(5), gx-convert-log(8)

=head1 AUTHOR

Keith Thompson, San Diego Supercomputer Center, <kst@sdsc.edu>

=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

See the file F<LICENSE> in the B<gx-map> distribution, installed in
the F<etc/gx-map> subdirectory.
