# $Id: gx-check-requests.8.pod,v 1.5 2006-04-12 19:17:36-07 kst Exp $
# $Source: /home/kst/gx-map-redacted/doc/gx-check-requests.8.pod,v $

=for comment
Make sure the license text appears in the generated man pages.

=begin roff

.\" @Copyright@
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2006 The Regents of the University of California. All
.\" rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are
.\" met:
.\"
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\" notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\"
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\" notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\" documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\"
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this
.\" software must display the following acknowledgement: This product
.\" includes software developed by the Advanced Cyberinfrastructure
.\" Laboratory at the San Diego Supercomputer Center and its contributors.
.\"
.\" 4. Neither the name of the Center nor the names of its contributors
.\" may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\" without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS''
.\" AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO,
.\" THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR
.\" PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS
.\" BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR
.\" CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF
.\" SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR
.\" BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY,
.\" WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE
.\" OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN
.\" IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\" @Copyright@

=end roff

=head1 NAME

gx-check-requests - Process requests for F<grid-mapfile> updates

=head1 SYNOPSIS

S<gx-check-requests -help>

S<gx-request [options]>

=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<gx-check-requests>, part of the B<gx-map> system, is the second of
the three phases used to generate the Globus grid-mapfile.

B<gx-check-requests> is normally run from a cron job.  It checks
for new request files generated by B<gx-request>.  Each request file
is checked for validity.  If the file is valid, it's appended, with
annotations, to the requests.log file.

The B<gx-check-requests> command must be executed by the account
that owns the B<gx-map> installation; this is typically the "globus"
account, but a different account can be configured when the B<gx-map>
system is installed.

=head1 OPTIONS

Option processing is done using the Perl B<Getopt::Long> module.

Options may be specified with a single or double leading '-' character.
Option names may be abbreviated to whatever is unique.  Arguments may
be separated either by a blank or by an '=' character.  For example,
"-foobar 42", "--foobar=42", and "-foob 42" would all be equivalent.

=over

=item B<-help>

Display a usage message and exit.

=item B<-version>

Display the software version number and exit.

=item B<-copy file>

Copy the F<requests.log> file to the specified location (e.g., to
make it visible via a web server).  The file's mode is set to 444
(C<-r--r--r-->).

=item B<-[no]propagate>

Invoke the optional B<gx-propagate> command when appropriate (if it's
been installed).  The default is B<-propagate>; use B<-nopropagate>
to override the default.  Use this with caution; it can cause requests
to be permanently bypassed.

=item B<-dryrun>

This option is passed to the B<gx-propagate> command.  This is intended
for developer testing only.  To disable propagation, use the B<-nopropagate>.
option.

=item B<-debugging>

Enable debugging output.  This is intended for developer testing only.

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

gx-map(7), gx-request(1), gx-propagate(8), gx-gen-mapfile(8),
gx-map-requests-log(5), gx-map-security(7)

=head1 AUTHOR

Keith Thompson, San Diego Supercomputer Center, <kst@sdsc.edu>

=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

See the file F<LICENSE> in the B<gx-map> distribution, installed in
the F<etc/gx-map> subdirectory.
