# $Id: gx-convert-log.8.pod,v 1.7 2007-01-25 15:50:39-08 kst Exp $
# $Source: /home/kst/gx-map-redacted/doc/gx-convert-log.8.pod,v $

=for comment
Make sure the license text appears in the generated man pages.

=begin roff

.\" @Copyright@
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2007 The Regents of the University of California. All
.\" rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are
.\" met:
.\"
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\" notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\"
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\" notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\" documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\"
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this
.\" software must display the following acknowledgement: This product
.\" includes software developed by the Advanced Cyberinfrastructure
.\" Laboratory at the San Diego Supercomputer Center and its contributors.
.\"
.\" 4. Neither the name of the Center nor the names of its contributors
.\" may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\" without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS''
.\" AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO,
.\" THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR
.\" PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS
.\" BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR
.\" CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF
.\" SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR
.\" BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY,
.\" WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE
.\" OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN
.\" IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\" @Copyright@

=end roff

=head1 NAME

gx-convert-log - Convert a F<requests.log> file from a previous version

=head1 SYNOPSIS

S<gx-convert-log -help>

S<gx-convert-log -version>

S<gx-convert-log [options] [files]>

=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<gx-convert-log>, part of the B<gx-map> system, is an administrative
command.  It reads an existing F<requests.log> file, possibly from
an older release of the B<gx-map> system.  It writes to stdout a
F<requests.log> file compatible with the current release of B<gx-map>.

=head1 OPTIONS

Option processing is done using the Perl B<Getopt::Long> module.

Options may be specified with a single or double leading '-' character.
Option names may be abbreviated to whatever is unique.  Arguments may
be separated either by a blank or by an '=' character.  For example,
"-foobar 42", "--foobar=42", and "-foob 42" would all be equivalent.

=over

=item B<-help>

Display a usage message and exit.

=item B<-version>

Display the software version number and exit.

=back

=head1 USAGE

The B<gx-convert-log> command is used to help in upgrading from
an older version of B<gx-map>.  The format of the F<requests.log>
file has changed between the 0.4.X and 0.5.X series of releases;
using B<gx-convert-log>, you can convert your old log to the new
format and use it in the new installation.

Previous versions allowed you to change the set of users recognized
as administrators; as of release 0.6.X, this is no longer necessary
due to a change in the way requests are processed.

The B<gx-convert-log> command does not works with F<requests.log>
files from B<gx-map> releases prior to 0.4.0.  (In the extremely
unlikely event that you need to process a log from an earlier version,
you can do so in two steps using the B<gx-convert-log> command from
an intermediate release.)

After running the B<gx-convert-log> command, you can optionally use
B<gx-cleanup-logs> to delete or comment out any redundant requests.

An alternative to using B<gx-convert-log> is to use B<gx-ingest>
(q.v.)  to read an existing grid-mapfile, translating it into a
sequence of B<gx-request> commands (from which a new F<requests.log>
file is generated).  One disadvantage of this approach is that it
loses much of the audit trail information from the old F<requests.log>
file, but you can always save a copy of the old file.

=head1 SEE ALSO

gx-map(7), gx-map-requests-log(5), gx-cleanup-logs(8)

=head1 AUTHOR

Keith Thompson, San Diego Supercomputer Center, <kst@sdsc.edu>

=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

See the file F<LICENSE> in the B<gx-map> distribution, installed in
the F<etc/gx-map> subdirectory.
