# $Id: gx-cron-job.8.pod,v 1.4 2006-10-19 19:33:44-07 kst Exp $
# $Source: /home/kst/gx-map-redacted/doc/gx-cron-job.8.pod,v $

=for comment
Make sure the license text appears in the generated man pages.

=begin roff

.\" @Copyright@
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2006 The Regents of the University of California. All
.\" rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are
.\" met:
.\"
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\" notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\"
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\" notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\" documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\"
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this
.\" software must display the following acknowledgement: This product
.\" includes software developed by the Advanced Cyberinfrastructure
.\" Laboratory at the San Diego Supercomputer Center and its contributors.
.\"
.\" 4. Neither the name of the Center nor the names of its contributors
.\" may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\" without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS''
.\" AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO,
.\" THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR
.\" PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS
.\" BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR
.\" CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF
.\" SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR
.\" BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY,
.\" WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE
.\" OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN
.\" IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\" @Copyright@

=end roff

=head1 NAME

gx-cron-job - Execute gx-map commands (for use in a cron job)

=head1 SYNOPSIS

S<gx-cron-job -help>

S<gx-cron-job -version>

S<gx-cron-job [options] [files]>

=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<gx-cron-job>, part of the B<gx-map> system, is an administrative
command.  It is intended to simplify the job of setting up cron jobs
for B<gx-map>.  Rather than setting up multiple cron jobs for various
commands, you can run a single instance of B<gx-cron-job> once per
minute; it will execute other commands based on the F<gx-cron-job.conf>
file.  Or you can run it in daemon mode and bypass B<cron> altogether.

=head1 OPTIONS

Option processing is done using the Perl B<Getopt::Long> module.

Options may be specified with a single or double leading '-' character.
Option names may be abbreviated to whatever is unique.  Arguments may
be separated either by a blank or by an '=' character.  For example,
"-foobar 42", "--foobar=42", and "-foob 42" would all be equivalent.

=over

=item B<-help>

Display a usage message and exit.

=item B<-version>

Display the software version number and exit.

=item B<-daemon>

Run in a continuous loop, checking for jobs once per minute.
The default is a single execution, suitable for running in a cron job.

=item B<-config-file> I<file>

Use the specified configuration file.  The default is
F<etc/gx-map/gx-cron-job> in the B<gx-map> installation directory.

=item B<-dryrun>

Display commands but don't execute them.

=item B<-debugging>

Enable debugging output.

=back

=head1 USAGE

The B<gx-map> system depends on certain administrative commands to
be executed repeatedly, usually from a cron job.  It's possible to
execute the necessary commands directly from your crontab, but the
B<gx-cron-job> command is intended to simplify this.

The behavior of the B<gx-cron-job> command is controlled by a
configuration file; see below.

=head1 CONFIGURATION FILE

The default B<gx-cron-job> configuration file is
F<etc/gx-map/gx-cron-job.conf> in the B<gx-map> installation directory.
This file is not installed by default, but a sample configuration
file is provided in the release as F<sample-gx-cron-job.conf>.

The configuration file consists of a sequence of records.  Each record
consists of a line containing only an opening brace '{', a sequence of
lines each containing an attribute name followed by the corresponding
attribute value, and a line consisting only of a closing brace '}'.
(The similarity to the format of the F<requests.log> file is not a
coincidence; the same code is used to parse both.)

Records are processed in the order specified in the
F<etc/gx-map/gx-cron-job.conf> file.  Multiple commands are executed
in sequence, not concurrently.

The permitted attributes are:

=over

=item B<name> I<string>

An arbitrary name for this record, used in error messages.

=item B<interval> I<minutes>

=item B<interval> I<minutes+minutes>

How often the command is executed.  The value may be either a decimal
integer X, indicating that the command is executed every X minutes,
or a pair of the form X+Y, which causes the command to be executed
every X minutes with an Y-minute offset.

For example, "interval 15" causes the command to be executed at 0,
15, 30, and 45 minutes after each hour; "interval 15+5" causes it to
be executed at 5, 20, 35, and 50 minutes after each hour.

Intervals are based on raw Unix time (elapsed time since
S<1970-01-01 00:00:00 GMT>).  For example, a command with an interval
of 1440 minutes (24 hours) will execute at midnight UTC, not midnight
local time.  For an interval that is a factor of one hour, this
shouldn't be relevant.

The B<interval> attribute is mandatory.

=item B<hostname> I<name>

Execute the command only if running on the specified
host.  The hostname is checked against the result of the
B<Gridmap_Utils::Get_Hostname> function, which may not be the same as
the result of the system F<hostname> command.
(Use S<C<gx-util-test get_hostname>> to check this.)

=item B<command>

There can be one or more commands in each record.  If no absolute
path is specified (i.e., the command does not start with a '/'
character), it is assumed to be in the F<sbin> directory of the
B<gx-map> installation directory.  The commands are executed in the
order specified.

At least one B<command> must be specified.

Within the command, the string "%HOSTNAME%" is replaced with the
full hostname on which the command is executed (see S<C<gx-util-test
get_hostname>>), and the string "%VERSION%" is replaced with the
gx-map version number.

Within 

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

gx-map(7), gx-util-test(8)

=head1 AUTHOR

Keith Thompson, San Diego Supercomputer Center, <kst@sdsc.edu>

=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

See the file F<LICENSE> in the B<gx-map> distribution, installed in
the F<etc/gx-map> subdirectory.
