# $Id: gx-ca-update.8.pod,v 1.4 2006-01-17 15:59:34-08 kst Exp $
# $Source: /home/kst/gx-map-redacted/doc/gx-ca-update.8.pod,v $

=for comment
Make sure the license text appears in the generated man pages.

=begin roff

.\" @Copyright@
.\" 
.\" Copyright (c) 2006 The Regents of the University of California. All
.\" rights reserved.
.\" 
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are
.\" met:
.\" 
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\" notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\" notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\" documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this
.\" software must display the following acknowledgement: This product
.\" includes software developed by the Advanced Cyberinfrastructure
.\" Laboratory at the San Diego Supercomputer Center and its contributors.
.\" 
.\" 4. Neither the name of the Center nor the names of its contributors
.\" may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\" without specific prior written permission.
.\" 
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS''
.\" AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO,
.\" THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR
.\" PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS
.\" BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR
.\" CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF
.\" SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR
.\" BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY,
.\" WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE
.\" OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN
.\" IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
.\" 
.\" @Copyright@

=end roff

=head1 NAME

gx-ca-update - Maintain certificate authority files

=head1 SYNOPSIS

gx-ca-update -help

gx-ca-update [options]

=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<gx-ca-update> is part of the B<gx-map> system.  It is used to
maintain the CA (Certificate Authority) files (signing certificates,
signing_policy files, and CRLs (Certificate Revocation Lists)) used
by Globus.

B<gx-ca-update> is normally run from a cron job.  It attempts to
update the files for a specified set of certificate authorities.

It uses a caching mechanism to avoid downloading files unless they've
been updated.

=head1 EXAMPLES

A typical cron job entry might look something like this:

    0,30 * * * * [...]/sbin/gx-ca-update
	         -target-dir [...]/certificates
	         -ca-list [...]/certificates/.list

In real life, the entire cron job entry has to be on a single line,
and the "[...]"s need to be replaced with actual directory names.

This cron job runs every 30 minutes.  It maintains the F<*.0>,
F<*.signing_policy>, and F<*.r0> files for the CAs listed in the
F<.list> file.

=head1 OPTIONS

Option processing is done using the Perl B<Getopt::Long> module.

Options may be specified with a single or double leading '-' character.
Option names may be abbreviated to whatever is unique.  Arguments may
be separated either by a blank or by an '=' character.  For example,
"-foobar 42", "--foobar=42", and "-foob 42" would all be equivalent.

=over

=item B<-help>

Display a usage message and exit.  The usage message contains
descriptions of all command-line options, and is likely to be more
correct than this man page.

=item B<-version>

Display the software version number and exit.

=item B<-UNSAFE>

Enable options that can create potential security problems.
The B<-UNSAFE> option must be in all-caps, and it may not be
abbreviated.

=item B<-ca> I<name>

Name of a certificate authority.  Normally this is given as the
8-digit hexadecimal hash value, but a brief name can also be used;
use B<-list-cas> to see a list.  This option may be given multiple
times, and/or the argument may be a list of CA names separated by
commas or blanks (in the latter case, the argument must be quoted).

=item B<-ca-list> I<file>

Name of a text file containing a list of CAs.  This option may be
given multiple times.

=item B<-all-cas>

Use all available CAs.  There is rarely any good reason to do this.
Requires the B<-UNSAFE> option.

=item B<-list-cas>

Show a list of available CAs and exit.

=item B<-target-dir> I<dir>

Specify the target directory.  Typically this will be either
F</etc/grid-security/certificates> or a directory to which
F</etc/grid-security/certificates> is a symbolic link.

=item B<-permissions> I<perm>

Specify the permissions, in octal, for the installed files.  The
default is 444; there is rarely any reason to use a different value.

=item B<-allow-missing-crl>

Allow a CA with no CRL to be installed.  Some Certificate Authorities
don't provide Certificate Revocation Lists.  This creates a
potential security hole, since there's no way to revoke a compromised
certificate.  This requires the B<-UNSAFE> option.

If a CA issues only short-term certificates, the lack of a CRL isn't
necessarily a problem.  For these CAs, the B<-allow-missing-crl> option
isn't required.  These CAs are indicated by the B<ALLOW_MISSING_CRL>
option in the F<*.cadesc> file.

=item B<expire-crl> I<time>

Remove a CRL that will expire within I<time>.  The time is expressed as
a number followed by 's' (seconds), 'm' (minutes), 'h' (hours), or 'd'
(days); it should be slightly longer than the interval of the cron job.
By default, expiring CRLs are left in place.

Removing an expiring CRL means that all certificates issued by the CA
will potentially be accepted, even if they've been revoked; this is a
potential security issue.  Leaving an expired CRL in place causes all
certificates issued by the CA to be rejected.  The proper solution
is to make sure that a current CRL is always available; this is the
responsibility of the CA administrators.

This option requires the b<-UNSAFE> option.

=item B<-warn-crl> I<time>

Issue an e-mail warning message if the CRL will expire within the
specified time.  Regardless of this option, a warning will also be
issued if the CRL has used more than 90% of its lifetime.

=item B<-force>

Force file updates.  This applies to certificate and signing_policy files.

=item B<-ignore-disable>

Certain CAs are disabled by default, as indicated by the B<DISABLE>
attribute in the F<*.cadesc> file.  Ths option overrides that attribute
and allows the CA to be used.  This requires the B<-UNSAFE> option.

=item B<-email>

Send e-amil to the configured B<ADMIN_EMAIL> address on errors.
This is set by default; use B<-noemail> to disable e-mail messages.

=item B<-verbose>

Print verbose messages.

=item B<-debugging>

Enable debugging output.  Not recommended.

=back

=head1 FILES

The B<gx-ca-update> command uses information in a set of CA
description files installed in the F<etc/ca-config> subdirectory
under the B<gx-map> installation directory.  Currently, there are
configuration files for 88 different CAs.

Each CA certificate has an 8-digit hexadecimal hash value associated
with it.  The files maintained by B<gx-ca-update> have names based on
this hash value.  For example, the SDSC CA's hash value is 3deda549;
the corresponding files are:

3deda549.0, the signing certificate

3deda549.signing_policy, the signing policy file.

3deda549.r0, the certificate revocation list

Since the certificate is updated only rarely, B<gx-ca-update>
normally only installs it once; it doesn't attempt to re-install
it unless the B<-force> option is specified.

The signing_policy file is generated by B<gx-ca-update>, even if a copy
is available from the CA's web site.  This allows for a consistent
format for all installed signing_policy files.  There are also some
changes that need to be made for some files for compatibility with
different versions of Globus; the files distributed by the CAs don't
always have these changes.

The CRL typically has a relatively short lifetime; it's typically
re-issued both periodically and immediately when a certificate is
revoked.  B<gx-ca-update> checks the CRL each time, and downloads
and installs it if it's been updated.

=head1 SECURITY

Incorrectly installed CA files can open serious security holes.
For example, an attacker could create a fake signing certificate
with the same hash and subject name as an existing CA certificate,
and then sign a user certificate matching an existing one, giving
the attacker access to the target user's account.

To prevent this, B<gx-ca-update> confirms the MD5 and SHA1 checksums
of any downloaded certificate before installing it.  The checksums
are compared to the ones specified in the corresponding F<*.cadesc>
file, which are based on my own download and manual check of the file.
To get past this check, an attacker would have to have taken control
of the CA web site both when I checked the certificate and when
B<gx-ca-update> attempts to download it.

Before each CRL is installed, B<gx-ca-update> confirms that it was
cryptographically signed by the corresponding certificate.

I've done my best to make the entire B<gx-map> system as secure
as possible.  Nevertheless, ...

=head1 GUARANTEES

None.  If you install this software and it breaks your system, it's
your own fault for trusting me.

=head1 SEE ALSO

gx-map(7), gx-map-cadesc(5)

=head1 AUTHOR

Keith Thompson, San Diego Supercomputer Center, <kst@sdsc.edu>

=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

See the file F<LICENSE> in the B<gx-map> distribution, installed in
the F<etc> subdirectory.
