# $Id: gx-db-request.8.pod,v 1.3 2006-06-13 18:41:18-07 kst Exp $
# $Source: /home/kst/gx-map-redacted/doc/gx-db-request.8.pod,v $

=for comment
Make sure the license text appears in the generated man pages.

=begin roff

.\" @Copyright@
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2006 The Regents of the University of California. All
.\" rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are
.\" met:
.\"
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\" notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\"
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\" notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\" documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\"
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this
.\" software must display the following acknowledgement: This product
.\" includes software developed by the Advanced Cyberinfrastructure
.\" Laboratory at the San Diego Supercomputer Center and its contributors.
.\"
.\" 4. Neither the name of the Center nor the names of its contributors
.\" may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\" without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS''
.\" AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO,
.\" THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR
.\" PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS
.\" BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR
.\" CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF
.\" SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR
.\" BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY,
.\" WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE
.\" OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN
.\" IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\" @Copyright@

=end roff

=head1 NAME

gx-db-request - Submit a requests for a B<TGCDB> update

=head1 SYNOPSIS

S<gx-db-request -help>

S<gx-db-request [options]>

=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<gx-db-request> is part of the B<gx-map> system and of the optional
B<TGCDB> (TeraGrid Central Database) subsystem.  This subsystem
specific to the TeraGrid; it may or may not be installed on your
system.

B<gx-db-request> is normally run either from a cron job or in response
to an incoming B<AMIE> packet.  It creates a new F<db-request> file
to be processed by B<gx-db-check-requests>.

Unlike the B<gx-request> command, B<gx-db-request> is an administrative
command, not intended to be used by end users.

The B<gx-db-request> command must be executed by the account
that owns the B<gx-map> installation; this is typically the "gxmap"
or "globus" account, but a different account can be configured when
the B<gx-map> system is installed.

There are three kinds of B<db-request>s:

=over

=item B<full-query>

This specifies a full query of the TGCDB for all user/DN mappings for
a given resource name.  This allows the B<gx-map> B<TGCDB> subsystem
to get a current and accurate view of the information in the database.

=item B<add>

This specifies that one or more mappings are to be added.  The request
includes a single user name and one or more DNs.

=item B<remove>

This specifies that one or more mappings are to be removed.  The request
includes a single user name and one or more DNs.

=back

The B<gx-db-request> command can be used in any of several ways:

You can periodically invoke B<gx-db-request -full-query> from a cron
job.  This is a good way to keep the mapping information synchronized,
but it can place a burden on the database server if multiple sites
are performing frequent queries.  If this option is chosen, TeraGrid
sites should coordinate to choose a reasonable interval (one hour,
perhaps?) and to stagger their requests to minimize the impact.

You can invoke B<gx-db-request -add> in response to each incoming
B<AMIE RUM(replace)> packet, and B<gx-db-request -remove> in response
to each B<AMIE RUM(delete)> packet.  This will minimize the impact on
the database server, and it I<should> theoretically keep everything
synchronized.  Before doing this, you should run B<gx-db-request
-full-query> to initialize the local copy of the TGCDB mapping
information.

Other combinations are possible.  For example, you can invoke
B<gx-db-request -full-query> in response to each incoming B<AMIE RUM>
packet, ignoring the content of the packet.  You can then control how
often the actual queries are performed by controlling the frequency
of the B<gx-db-check-requests> command.  (If B<gx-db-check-requests>
sees multiple B<full-query> requests, it will only perform one full
query.)  This has the advantage of using full queries to synchronize
the mapping information more reliably, while avoiding submitting
queries if no B<AMIE RUM> packets have been received recently.

The best choice is going to depend on a number of factors: how big
a burden is actually placed on the database, how many systems are
running this software, how often B<AMIE RUM> packets are actually
sent out, and so forth.

=head1 OPTIONS

Option processing is done using the Perl B<Getopt::Long> module.

Options may be specified with a single or double leading '-' character.
Option names may be abbreviated to whatever is unique.  Arguments may
be separated either by a blank or by an '=' character.  For example,
"-foobar 42", "--foobar=42", and "-foob 42" would all be equivalent.

=over

=item B<-help>

Display a usage message and exit.

=item B<-version>

Display the software version number and exit.

=item B<-add>

Submit an B<add> request.  Requires exactly one B<-username> option
and either a B<-dn-list-file> option or one or more B<-dn> options.

=item B<-remove>

Submit a B<remove> request.  Requires exactly one B<-username> option
and either a B<-dn-list-file> option or one or more B<-dn> options.

=item B<-username> I<USER>

Unix user name to be used with B<-add> or B<-remove>.

=item B<-dn> I<DN>

A DN (Distinguished Name or Subject Name) associated with the specified
user, to be added or removed.  This option may be given multiple times,
but may not be used with the B<-dn-list-file> option.  The DN should
be enclosed in double quotes, since it's likely to contain special
characters (avoid single quotes since some people's names include
apostrophes).

=item B<-dn-list-file> I<FILE>

Read a list of DNs from a specified text file.  Each line is treated
as a complete DN; comments are not supported, and white space is not
ignored.  Use B<-dn-list-file -> to read from stdin.  This option may
not be used with the B<-dn> option.  It is intended to avoid problems
with very long command lines when multiple DNs are needed.

=item B<-full-query>

Submit a B<full-query> request.  The B<-username>, B<-dn>, and
B<-dn-list-file> options may not be used with this option.

=item B<-debugging>

Enable debugging output.  This is intended for developer testing only.

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

gx-map(7), gx-db-check-requests(8), gx-propagate(8)

=head1 AUTHOR

Keith Thompson, San Diego Supercomputer Center, <kst@sdsc.edu>

=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

See the file F<LICENSE> in the B<gx-map> distribution, installed in
the F<etc/gx-map> subdirectory.
