# $Id: gx-gen-mapfile.8.pod,v 1.9.2.1 2007-03-02 01:27:49-08 kst Exp $
# $Source: /home/kst/gx-map-redacted/doc/gx-gen-mapfile.8.pod,v $

=for comment
Make sure the license text appears in the generated man pages.

=begin roff

.\" @Copyright@
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2007 The Regents of the University of California. All
.\" rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are
.\" met:
.\"
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\" notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\"
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\" notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\" documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\"
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this
.\" software must display the following acknowledgement: This product
.\" includes software developed by the Advanced Cyberinfrastructure
.\" Laboratory at the San Diego Supercomputer Center and its contributors.
.\"
.\" 4. Neither the name of the Center nor the names of its contributors
.\" may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\" without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS''
.\" AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO,
.\" THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR
.\" PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS
.\" BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR
.\" CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF
.\" SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR
.\" BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY,
.\" WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE
.\" OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN
.\" IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\" @Copyright@

=end roff

=head1 NAME

gx-gen-mapfile - Generate a F<grid-mapfile>

=head1 SYNOPSIS

S<gx-gen-mapfile -help>

S<gx-gen-mapfile [options] [grid-mapfile]>

=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<gx-gen-mapfile>, part of the B<gx-map> system, is the third of
the three phases used to generate the Globus grid-mapfile.

B<gx-gen-mapfile> is normally run from a cron job.  It reads the
F<requests.log> file and generates a new F<grid-mapfile> from scratch
as needed.  If no file names are specified, a F<grid-mapfile> is
written to stdout.

=head1 OPTIONS

Option processing is done using the Perl B<Getopt::Long> module.

Options may be specified with a single or double leading '-' character.
Option names may be abbreviated to whatever is unique.  Arguments may
be separated either by a blank or by an '=' character.  For example,
"-foobar 42", "--foobar=42", and "-foob 42" would all be equivalent.

=over

=item B<-help>

Display a usage message and exit.

=item B<-version>

Display the software version number and exit.

=item B<-requests-log file>

Use specified requests log file.  This option may be given multiple times, e.g.,
    -req file1 -req file2

If not specified, use the default file, F<gx-map-data/requests.log>,
which may also be specified explicitly as B<-req default> (the name
"default" may not be abbreviated).  It should not normally be necessary
to use this option.

=item B<-permissions perm>

Specify the permissions (in octal) of the generated grid-mapfile.
The default is 444.  The argument must be a 3-digit octal number;
it should I<not> allow untrusted users to modify the file.  This is
ignored if the F<grid-mapfile> is written to stdout.

=item B<-gt2-compatible>

Generate a grid-mapfile compatible with both GT2 and GT3/GT4.
By default, the generated grid-mapfile is *not* compatible with GT2
for certain DNs.

GT2 used an older version of OpenSSL, which used different text
representations of certain fields in DNs.  The affected fields are:

    GT2: /USERID=... --> GT4: /UID=...

    GT2: /Email=... --> GT4: /emailAddress=... 

The B<-gt2-compatible> option causes duplicate entries to be generated
for DNs containing these fields.

=item B<-gt3-compatible>

Generate a grid-mapfile compatible with GT3 WS.  The DNs differ from
GT4-compatible DNs in that "/emailAddress=..." is represented as
"/E=...".

The B<-gt3-compatible> option causes duplicate entries to be generated
for DNs containing this field.

Since GT3 has been superseded by GT4, this option is rarely useful.

=item B<-merge-before file>

=item B<-merge-after file>

Merge an existing grid-mapfile into the generated file.  These options
may be given multiple times, e.g.:

    -merge-before file1 -merge-before file2 -merge-after file3

Mappings from files specified with the B<-merge-before> option at
treated as if they were submitted in the past, so they'll be overridden
by conflicting mappings from any request log files.

Mappings from files specified with the B<-merge-after> option at
treated as if they were submitted in the future (one hour after the
current time, to avoid clock skew problems), so they'll override
conflicting mappings from any request log files.

Since the B<gx-map> system is designed to have complete control over
the F<grid-mapfile>, the B<-merge-before> and B<-merge-after> options
allow other mechanisms to be used along with B<gx-map>.  For example,
if a site automatically issues certificates for all users, an external
process might maintain a B<grid-mapfile> containing all those entries.
Using this option allows this information to be integrated into the
F<grid-mapfile>, while also allowing users to add mappings for other
certificates using B<gx-request>.  (Another option is to create a
separate tool that invokes B<gx-request> automatically; for example,
this is done at SDSC for certificates issued by the NPACI and SDSC
CAs, using the B<gx-check-index> command).

=item B<-[no]multiple-users>

By default, the generated grid-mapfile may map a single DN to multiple
account names.  With B<-nomultiple-users>, all user names after the
default one are commented out.

=item B<-all>

Include entries for accounts that don't exist on this system.  This is
not normally recommended, since it makes the F<grid-mapfile> bigger
than it needs to be, but it can be useful for testing purposes to
see all the mappings that B<gx-map> knows about.

=item B<-real-name>

Include each user's real name (extracted from F</etc/passwd> or
equivalent) as a comment on the corresponding F<grid-mapfile> entry.

=item B<-[no]rcs>

Check generated grid-mapfile(s) into RCS.  The RCS subdirectory
is created if necessary.  The default is B<-rcs>; use B<-norcs> to
disable this option.  The file checked into RCS will have a ".rcs"
suffix appended to its name.  This has no effect if the B<grid-mapfile>
is written to stdout.

=item B<-force>

Force an update regardless of the timestamps of the input and output
files.  Normally the F<grid-mapfile> is not re-generated if it is
newer than any of its input files (F</etc/passwd>, F<requests.log>).
(B<gx-gen-mapfile> also checks the last modification time of a
F<.update> file in the F<new-requests> directory; the command
C<gx-request update> will force an update to this file.)

=item B<-prerequisite file>

Causes the specified file to be treated as a prerequisite in
determining whether the grid-mapfile needs to be regenerated.  The file
is not processed other than to check its timestamp.  This option may
be given multiple times

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

gx-map(7), gx-request(1), gx-check-requests(8), gx-map-security(7),
gx-check-index(8)

=head1 AUTHOR

Keith Thompson, San Diego Supercomputer Center, <kst@sdsc.edu>

=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

See the file F<LICENSE> in the B<gx-map> distribution, installed in
the F<etc/gx-map> subdirectory.
