# $Id: gx-install-cadesc.8.pod,v 1.2 2007-01-01 13:01:35-08 kst Exp $
# $Source: /home/kst/gx-map-redacted/doc/gx-install-cadesc.8.pod,v $

=for comment
Make sure the license text appears in the generated man pages.

=begin roff

.\" @Copyright@
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2007 The Regents of the University of California. All
.\" rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are
.\" met:
.\"
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\" notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\"
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\" notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\" documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\"
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this
.\" software must display the following acknowledgement: This product
.\" includes software developed by the Advanced Cyberinfrastructure
.\" Laboratory at the San Diego Supercomputer Center and its contributors.
.\"
.\" 4. Neither the name of the Center nor the names of its contributors
.\" may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\" without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS''
.\" AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO,
.\" THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR
.\" PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS
.\" BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR
.\" CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF
.\" SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR
.\" BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY,
.\" WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE
.\" OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN
.\" IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\" @Copyright@

=end roff

=head1 NAME

gx-install-cadesc - Install a new set of cadesc files

=head1 SYNOPSIS

S<gx-install-cadesc -help>

S<gx-install-cadesc -version>

S<gx-install-cadesc [options] filename>

=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<gx-install-cadesc>, part of the B<gx-map> system, is an
administrative command.  It installs a new set of F<cadesc> files
from a specified tarball.

=head1 OPTIONS

Option processing is done using the Perl B<Getopt::Long> module.

Options may be specified with a single or double leading '-' character.
Option names may be abbreviated to whatever is unique.  Arguments may
be separated either by a blank or by an '=' character.  For example,
"-foobar 42", "--foobar=42", and "-foob 42" would all be equivalent.

=over

=item B<-help>

Display a usage message and exit.

=item B<-version>

Display the software version number and exit.

=item B<-install-dir> I<dir>

The B<gx-map> installation directory.

By default, the tarball is installed in the current B<gx-map>
installation directory.

=item B<-debugging>

Enable debugging output.  This is intended for testing only.

=back

=head1 USAGE

The B<gx-map> package, and particularly the B<gx-ca-update> command,
uses a set of F<cadesc> files, installed in the F<etc/gx-map/ca-config>
subdirectory of the B<gx-map> installation directory.  Each F<cadesc>
file contains information

The B<gx-install-cadesc> renames this directory (thus saving any
F<cadesc> files you may have modified>, then unpacks a new set of
files into the F<etc/gx-map/ca-config> directory.

The newest set of F<cadesc> files can be found on the B<gx-map>
web page <http://users.sdsc.edu/~kst/gx-map/> and/or ftp site
<ftp://ftp.sdsc.edu/pub/sdsc/globus/software/gx-map/>.  The
F<cadesc> files are packaged in a tarball with a name of the form
F<gx-map-cadesc-MMMM-DD-YY.tar.gz>.  (Each tarball is accompanied by
a PGP signature.)

=head1 SEE ALSO

gx-map(7), gx-ca-update(8), gx-map-cadesc(5)

=head1 AUTHOR

Keith Thompson, San Diego Supercomputer Center, <kst@sdsc.edu>

=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

See the file F<LICENSE> in the B<gx-map> distribution, installed in
the F<etc/gx-map> subdirectory.
