# $Id: gx-ingest.8.pod,v 1.2 2006-03-10 19:51:00-08 kst Exp $
# $Source: /home/kst/gx-map-redacted/doc/gx-ingest.8.pod,v $

=for comment
Make sure the license text appears in the generated man pages.

=begin roff

.\" @Copyright@
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2006 The Regents of the University of California. All
.\" rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are
.\" met:
.\"
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\" notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\"
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\" notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\" documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\"
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this
.\" software must display the following acknowledgement: This product
.\" includes software developed by the Advanced Cyberinfrastructure
.\" Laboratory at the San Diego Supercomputer Center and its contributors.
.\"
.\" 4. Neither the name of the Center nor the names of its contributors
.\" may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\" without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS''
.\" AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO,
.\" THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR
.\" PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS
.\" BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR
.\" CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF
.\" SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR
.\" BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY,
.\" WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE
.\" OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN
.\" IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\" @Copyright@

=end roff

=head1 NAME

gx-ingest - Ingest an existing F<grid-mapfile> into the B<gx-map> system

=head1 SYNOPSIS

S<gx-ingest -help>

S<gx-ingest -version>

S<gx-ingest [options] [files]>

=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<gx-ingest>, part of the B<gx-map> system, is an administrative
command.  It reads one or more existing F<grid-mapfile>s (or stdin if
no file name is specified).  It writes to stdout a shell script that
invokes the B<gx-request> command for each entry in the input file(s).

The B<gx-ingest> command, and the script it generates, can be used
to import existing F<grid-mapfile>s, possibly generated manually or
by other tools, into the B<gx-map> system.

Any errors in the input file(s) will appear as comments in the
generated script.

Be sure to examine the generated script carefully before running it.

=head1 USAGE

S<< gx-ingest <DIR>/grid-mapfile > ingest.sh >>

S<chmod +x ingest.sh>

S<vi ingest.sh # make sure the script is correct>

S<./ingest.sh>

=head1 OPTIONS

Option processing is done using the Perl B<Getopt::Long> module.

Options may be specified with a single or double leading '-' character.
Option names may be abbreviated to whatever is unique.  Arguments may
be separated either by a blank or by an '=' character.  For example,
"-foobar 42", "--foobar=42", and "-foob 42" would all be equivalent.

=over

=item B<-help>

Display a usage message and exit.

=item B<-version>

Display the software version number and exit.

=back
