# $Id: gx-map.7.pod,v 1.6 2006-01-06 15:25:52-08 kst Exp $
# $Source: /home/kst/gx-map-redacted/doc/gx-map.7.pod,v $

=for comment
Make sure the license text appears in the generated man pages.

=begin roff

.\" @Copyright@
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2006 The Regents of the University of California. All
.\" rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are
.\" met:
.\"
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\" notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\"
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\" notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\" documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\"
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this
.\" software must display the following acknowledgement: This product
.\" includes software developed by the Advanced Cyberinfrastructure
.\" Laboratory at the San Diego Supercomputer Center and its contributors.
.\"
.\" 4. Neither the name of the Center nor the names of its contributors
.\" may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\" without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS''
.\" AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO,
.\" THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR
.\" PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS
.\" BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR
.\" CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF
.\" SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR
.\" BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY,
.\" WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE
.\" OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN
.\" IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\" @Copyright@

=end roff

=head1 NAME

gx-map - A system for maintaining Globus F<grid-mapfile>s and F<CRL>s

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The B<gx-map> package is a set of programs, implemented in Perl,
designed to automate the maintenance of the F<grid-mapfile> and the
various CA files used by Globus.

All commands accept a B<-help> option to print a brief usage message
and a B<-version> option to display the current software version.

=head1 GRID-MAPFILE MAINTENANCE

F<grid-mapfile> maintenance is done in three phases.

Phase one is the client program, B<gx-request>.  Using this command,
an unprivileged user can request an update to the F<grid-mapfile>.  The
update will be automatically propagated as needed.  The B<gx-request>
command creates a request file in a world-writable directory.

(In previous releases, the B<gx-request> command was called B<gx-map>,
but using the same name for the client command and the package as a
whole was confusing.  The B<gx-map> command is still available as a
symbolic link to B<gx-request>, but it's deprecated and is likely to
be removed in a future release.)

Phase two is the B<gx-check-requests> program.  This is normally
executed from a cron job.  This checks for new request files generated
by B<gx-request>.  Any new request files are validated; if this is
successful, the request file is appended, with annotations, to the
F<requests.log> file.

Phase three is the B<gx-gen-mapfile> command.  This is normally
executed from a cron job.  This reads the F<requests.log> file and
generates a new F<grid-mapfile> as needed.  The F<grid-mapfile> is
regenerated from scratch whenever necessary, so any manual changes
to the F<grid-mapfile> will be lost on the next update.

=head1 CA FILE MAINTENANCE

The B<gx-ca-update> command maintains the certificate, CRL, and
signing_policy files used by Globus.  See the B<gx-ca-update(8)>
man page for details.

=head1 GUARANTEES

None.  I believe the B<gx-map> package is reasonably robust, but if
you install this software and it breaks your system, it's your own
fault for trusting me.

=head1 SEE ALSO

gx-request(1), gx-check-requests(8), gx-gen-mapfile(8), gx-ca-update(8), gx-map-requests-log(5)

=head1 AUTHOR

Keith Thompson, San Diego Supercomputer Center, <kst@sdsc.edu>

=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

See the file F<LICENSE> in the B<gx-map> distribution, installed in
the F<etc> subdirectory.
