# $Id: gx-map-cadesc.5.pod,v 1.3 2006-03-21 01:37:36-08 kst Exp $
# $Source: /home/kst/gx-map-redacted/doc/gx-map-cadesc.5.pod,v $

=for comment
Make sure the license text appears in the generated man pages.

=begin roff

.\" @Copyright@
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2006 The Regents of the University of California. All
.\" rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are
.\" met:
.\"
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\" notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\"
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\" notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\" documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\"
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this
.\" software must display the following acknowledgement: This product
.\" includes software developed by the Advanced Cyberinfrastructure
.\" Laboratory at the San Diego Supercomputer Center and its contributors.
.\"
.\" 4. Neither the name of the Center nor the names of its contributors
.\" may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\" without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS''
.\" AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO,
.\" THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR
.\" PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS
.\" BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR
.\" CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF
.\" SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR
.\" BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY,
.\" WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE
.\" OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN
.\" IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\" @Copyright@

=end roff

=head1 NAME

gx-map cadesc - The cadesc file format used by B<gx-map>

=head1 DESCRIPTION

A F<cadesc> file is a plain text file containing the information
needed for the B<gx-ca-update> command to work with a CA (Certificate
Authority).

The F<cadesc> files are installed under the F<etc/ca-config> directory
of the B<gx-map> installation directory.  A number of these files
are provided with the B<gx-map> distribution.  Users can also create
their own F<cadesc> files (and are encouraged to send them to the
author for inclusion in future B<gx-map> releases).

The name of each file is of the form
F<E<lt>hashE<gt>>.F<E<lt>nameE<gt>>.F<cadesc>, where F<E<lt>hashE<gt>>
is the 8-digit hexadecimal hash value that identifies the CA's
signing certificate, and F<E<lt>nameE<gt>> is a brief name for the CA.
For example, the description file for the SDSC Certificate Authority
is F<3deda549.sdsc.cadesc>.

A F<cadesc> file is a plain text file where each line contains
an attribute name followed by the corresponding attribute value.
Blank lines are ignored.  Comments are introduced by the '#' character.

=head1 ATTRIBUTES

This is a list of the allowed attributes in a F<cadesc> file.
Attributes marked as "(required)" must be specified, and must have
a valid value.  Attributes marked as "(doc)" are provided only for
documentation; B<gx-ca-update> ignores their values.

=over

=item CA_NAME (required)

The name of the CA.

=item HOMEPAGE (doc)

The URL for the web page associated with the CA.

=item CONTACT (doc)

An e-mail address for the CA.

=item HASH (required)

The 8-digit hexadecimal hash for the certificate's subject name.

It can be computed by
    S<C<openssl x509 -hash -in F<FILENAME> -noout>>

The hash is incorporated into the names of the certificate, CRL,
and signing_policy files (F<xxxxxxxx.0>, F<xxxxxxxx.r0>, and
F<xxxxxxxx.signing_policy>, respectively).  The specified hash is
checked against the downloaded certificate.

=item SIGNED_BY

If provided, this specifies the subject name of the signer of the CA
certificate.  This is mandatory if the certificate is not self-signed.
If the certificate it is self-signed, the B<SIGNED_BY> attribute
should be omitted.  The value is checked against the actual issuer
of the certificate.  B<gx-ca-update> also checks whether the issuing
certificate is installed.

=item SUBJECT (required)

The subject name of the signing certificate.  This is checked against
the actual subject name of the downloaded certificate.

=item MAY_SIGN (required)

A pattern (either a wildcard or a single subject name) used to
construct the signing_policy file.  More than one MAY_SIGN attribute
may be specified.  This is used to construct the B<signing_policy> file.

=item CERTIFICATE_MD5 (required)

The MD5 fingerprint of the signing certificate.  This can be
determined by
    S<C<openssl x509 -md5 -fingerprint -in F<FILENAME> -noout>>

This is checked against the actual fingerprint of the downloaded
certificate.

=item CERTIFICATE_SHA1 (required)

The SHA1 fingerprint of the signing certificate.  This can be
determined by
    S<C<openssl x509 -sha1 -fingerprint -in F<FILENAME> -noout>>

This is checked against the actual fingerprint of the downloaded
certificate.

The MD5 and SHA1 algorithms have been demonstrated to have some
weaknesses.  It is hoped that checking both will provide some better
level of security than checking just one.

=item SIGNING_POLICY_URL (doc)

A URL from which a signing_policy file can be downloaded.  This is
included for reference; gx-ca-update doesn't use it.  Instead, the
signing_policy file is constructed from the SUBJECT and MAY_SIGN
attributes.  This allows a site to impose a stricter policy than the
one suggested by the CA's owner (or a looser policy, but that's seldom
a good idea).

=item CRL_URL

A URL from which the certificate revocation list, in PEM format,
can be downloaded.  A missing CRL_URL is normally treated as an
error; see the B<-allow-missing-crl> command-line option and the
B<ALLOW_MISSING_CRL> attributes for ways to override this.

=item ALLOW_MISSING_CRL

This is similar to the B<gx-ca-update>'s B<-allow-missing-crl>
command line option, but it applies only to a single CA, generally
one like the PSC or USC Kerberos CA that only issues short-term
certificates.  If this attribute is set to "yes", an unspecified,
missing, or expired CRL is not a fatal error.

Recognizing a CA that doesn't provide a CRL is normally not
recommended.

=item CERT_EXPIRES (doc)

This is the expiration date for the certificate.
It can be determined by 
    S<C<openssl x509 -in B<FILENAME> -noout -enddate>>

=item DISABLED

If set to "yes", this indicates that the CA files are not to be
installed.  Note that setting DISABLED to "no", or omitting it,
doesn't mean that the CA files will be installed.  The set of CAs
to be recognized is specified by the B<-ca> or B<-ca-list> option to
the B<gx-ca-update> program.

=back

For consistency, the B<SIGNED_BY>, B<SUBJECT>, and B<MAY_SIGN>
attributes should use forms compatible with GT3 or higher and OpenSSL
0.9.7 or higher:

    Use "/UID=...", not "/USERID=..." or "/0.9.2342.19200300.100.1.1=..."

    Use "/emailAddress=...", not "/Email=...".

though B<gx-ca-update> will translate to this form if necessary.

See B<http://bugzilla.globus.org/bugzilla/show_bug.cgi?id=575>> for
more information about this issue.

All URLs may be specified with a prefix of either B<"http://">,
B<"https://">, or B<"ftp://">.  Files specified by URLs are downloaded
using the "curl" command.


=head1 SEE ALSO

gx-map(7), gx-ca-update<8>

=head1 AUTHOR

Keith Thompson, San Diego Supercomputer Center, <kst@sdsc.edu>

=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

See the file F<LICENSE> in the B<gx-map> distribution, installed in
the F<etc> subdirectory.
