# $Id: gx-map-db-config.5.pod,v 1.2 2006-11-21 18:55:58-08 kst Exp $
# $Source: /home/kst/gx-map-redacted/doc/gx-map-db-config.5.pod,v $

=for comment
Make sure the license text appears in the generated man pages.

=begin roff

.\" @Copyright@
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2006 The Regents of the University of California. All
.\" rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are
.\" met:
.\"
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\" notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\"
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\" notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\" documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\"
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this
.\" software must display the following acknowledgement: This product
.\" includes software developed by the Advanced Cyberinfrastructure
.\" Laboratory at the San Diego Supercomputer Center and its contributors.
.\"
.\" 4. Neither the name of the Center nor the names of its contributors
.\" may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\" without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS''
.\" AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO,
.\" THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR
.\" PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS
.\" BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR
.\" CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF
.\" SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR
.\" BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY,
.\" WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE
.\" OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN
.\" IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\" @Copyright@

=end roff

=head1 NAME

gx-map db-config - The db-config file format used by B<gx-map>

=head1 DESCRIPTION

A F<db-config> file is a plain text file containing the information
needed for the B<gx-propagate>, B<gx-db-check-requests>,
and B<gx-db-dump> commands to work with a database.  This is
TeraGrid-specific.

If the B<gx-map> system is configured to work with the TGCDB
(TeraGrid Central Database), then a dummy F<tgcdb.db-config> file
will be installed in the F<etc/gx-map> directory.  The fields must
be filled in before B<gx-map> can interact with the TGCDB.

This is a plain text file where each line contains an attribute
name followed by the corresponding attribute value.  Blank lines
are ignored.  Comments are introduced by the '#' character.  Specific
values for these attributes are not specified here; consult a TeraGrid
administrator for the correct values.

Since this file contains a plain-text password, it B<must> be kept
secure; its permissions must be either 600 or 400.

=head1 ATTRIBUTES

This is a list of the allowed attributes in a F<db-config> file.
Most attributes are mandatory; the "resource_wildcard" attribute
is optional.

=over

=item host

The host name of the database server.

=item port

The port number for the database server.

=item dbname

The database name.

=item resource_name

The resource name, used within the database to map user names to people
and vice versa.  This should not be a wildcard (it should not contain a
'%' character).

=item resource_wildcard (optional)

If specified, this is a wildcard (using a '%' character) that specifies
a set of resource names.  If a site has multiple resources, this
allows mappings for all those resources to be retrieved.

Use this B<only> if all specified resources are in the same
B<NAMESPACE>.  A B<namespace>, specified when B<gx-map> is installed,
is a consistent mapping of Unix user names to people.  If a given
Unix user name is guaranteed to belong to the same person on all
systems within a site, then the site has a single namespace.  If,
for example, the Unix user name "fred" might belong to Fred Smith on
foo.yoursite.edu, and to Fred Jones on bar.yoursite.edu, then you
do not have a single namespace; you must have distinct, disjoint
installations of gx-map on those two systems, and you should not
specify a B<resource_wildcard>.

If the B<resource_wildcard> is not specified, it will default to
the B<resource_name>.

=item user

The user name used to connect to the database.  This is a PostgreSQL
user name, not a Unix user nam e.

=item password

The password associated with the user name.  Do not reveal this
password.

=back

=head1 SECURITY

As mentioned above, the F<tgcdb.db-config> file must be kept secure.
It must be owned by the owner of the gx-map installation (specified
as B<OWNER_NAME> in the installation configuration file), and
its permissions must be either 600 or 400.  If it has any other
permissions, any programs that use it will refuse to run -- but by
that time, it could be too late.  The file, by necessity, contains a
clear-text database password.  An attacker with access to this file
could add or remove information from the TGCDB, and possibly break
into systems.

=head1 SEE ALSO

gx-map(8), gx-propagate(8), gx-db-check-requests(8), B<gx-db-dump>

=head1 AUTHOR

Keith Thompson, San Diego Supercomputer Center, <kst@sdsc.edu>

=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

See the file F<LICENSE> in the B<gx-map> distribution, installed in
the F<etc/gx-map> subdirectory.
