# $Id: gx-map-requests-log.5.pod,v 1.2 2006-01-06 15:25:52-08 kst Exp $
# $Source: /home/kst/gx-map-redacted/doc/gx-map-requests-log.5.pod,v $

=for comment
Make sure the license text appears in the generated man pages.

=begin roff

.\" @Copyright@
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2006 The Regents of the University of California. All
.\" rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are
.\" met:
.\"
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\" notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\"
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\" notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\" documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\"
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this
.\" software must display the following acknowledgement: This product
.\" includes software developed by the Advanced Cyberinfrastructure
.\" Laboratory at the San Diego Supercomputer Center and its contributors.
.\"
.\" 4. Neither the name of the Center nor the names of its contributors
.\" may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\" without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS''
.\" AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO,
.\" THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR
.\" PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS
.\" BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR
.\" CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF
.\" SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR
.\" BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY,
.\" WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE
.\" OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN
.\" IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\" @Copyright@

=end roff

=head1 NAME

gx-map requests.log - The F<requests.log> file format used by B<gx-map>

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The F<requests.log> file is used by the B<gx-map> system to store
information about requests for updates to the B<grid-mapfile>.  It's a
plain text file consisting a sequence of requests.  Each request
consists of a line containing only an opening brace '{', a sequence of
lines each containing an attribute name followed by the corresponding
attribute value, and a line consisting only of a closing brace '}'.

The file is stored in the F<var> subdirectory of the B<gx-map>
installation directory.

More details to follow when I update this man page.

=head1 SEE ALSO

gx-map(7), gx-request(1), gx-check-requests(8), gx-gen-mapfile(8)

=head1 AUTHOR

Keith Thompson, San Diego Supercomputer Center, <kst@sdsc.edu>

=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

See the file F<LICENSE> in the B<gx-map> distribution, installed in
the F<etc> subdirectory.
