# $Id: gx-propagate.8.pod,v 1.11 2006-11-21 14:57:47-08 kst Exp $
# $Source: /home/kst/gx-map-redacted/doc/gx-propagate.8.pod,v $

=for comment
Make sure the license text appears in the generated man pages.

=begin roff

.\" @Copyright@
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2006 The Regents of the University of California. All
.\" rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are
.\" met:
.\"
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\" notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\"
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\" notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\" documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\"
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this
.\" software must display the following acknowledgement: This product
.\" includes software developed by the Advanced Cyberinfrastructure
.\" Laboratory at the San Diego Supercomputer Center and its contributors.
.\"
.\" 4. Neither the name of the Center nor the names of its contributors
.\" may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\" without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS''
.\" AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO,
.\" THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR
.\" PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS
.\" BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR
.\" CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF
.\" SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR
.\" BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY,
.\" WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE
.\" OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN
.\" IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\" @Copyright@

=end roff

=head1 NAME

gx-propagate - Propagate a grid-mapfile request to a cross-site database

=head1 SYNOPSIS

S<gx-propagate -help>

S<gx-propagate [options]>

=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<gx-propagate>, part of the B<gx-map> system, is an optional plug-in
command invoked by the B<gx-check-requests> command.  Two versions
are provided in the B<gx-map> distribution: a TeraGrid-specific
version that communicates with the B<TGCDB> (TeraGrid Central
DataBase), and a dummy test version that merely logs its arguments
to F<gx-map-data/gx-propagate.log> under the B<gx-map> installation
directory.

The TeraGrid-specific version of the B<gx-propagate> command adds
the specified information to the B<TGCDB>.  This information is then
propagated across all TeraGrid sites, and the B<gx-request> command
is automatically invoked at the other sites so that the mapping will
appear on all systems where the user has an account.

The same person may have different Unix user names at different sites.
Conversely, the same Unix user name may be owned by different people
at different site.  The B<TGCDB> is responsible both for passing the
information from site to site and for resolving site-specific Unix
user names.

The B<gx-propagate> interface was designed with the TeraGrid in mind,
but it's intended to be flexible enough so that it can be used for
other similar systems.  (It remains to be seen whether the interface
will have to be redesigned for other systems.)

=head1 OPTIONS

Option processing is done using the Perl B<Getopt::Long> module.

Options may be specified with a single or double leading '-' character.
Option names may be abbreviated to whatever is unique.  Arguments may
be separated either by a blank or by an '=' character.  For example,
"-foobar 42", "--foobar=42", and "-foob 42" would all be equivalent.

=over

=item B<-help>

Display a usage message and exit.

=item B<-version>

Display the software version number and exit.

=item B<-source> I<name>

Specify the source attribute of the mapping request.  This is a short
string specifying to the origin of the mapping.  For the TeraGrid
version of the B<gx-propagate> command, specifying S<C<-source TGCDB>>
indicates that the mapping originated from the TeraGrid Central
DataBase; such mappings are not propagated (to avoid an infinite loop).

This is mandatory.

=item B<-add>

Propagate an "add" request, adding a mapping for a specified
DN (Distinguished Name) and user account.

=item B<-remove>

Propagate a "remove" request, removing a mapping for a specified
DN and user account.

=item B<-remove-dn>

Propagate a "remove-dn" request, removing all mappings for a specified DN.

=item B<-remove-user>

Propagate a "remove-user" request, removing all mappings for a
specified user.

=item B<-username> I<name>

Specify the user name (not necessary for a B<-remove-dn> request).

=item B<-dn> I<"string">

Specify the DN (Distinguished Name) (not necessary for a
B<-remove-user> request).

=item B<-dryrun>

Don't actually do the database transaction.  This is intended for
developer testing only.

=item B<-check-config>

Check whether the F<tgcdb.db-config> file is ok.  If not, silently exit
with an error indication.  This is used by B<gx-check-requests>.

The F<tgcdb.db-config> is considered to be ok if all fields are filled
in and the file's permissions are set to either 600 (rw-------) or 400
(r--------).  The values of the fields are not checked.

=item B<-debugging>

Enable debugging output.  This is intended for developer testing only.

=back

In the TeraGrid-specific version of B<gx-propagate>, the B<-remove-dn>
and B<-remove-user> requests are implemented by searching the existing
F<requests.log> file and individually removing each mapping that
matches the specified criterion.  If your F<grid-mapfile> is generated
from multiple sources, by using the the B<gx-gen-mapfile> command's
B<-merge-file> or B<-requests-log> option, then this search may not
reflect all the information it should, and inconsistencies may result.

The TeraGrid-specific version of B<gx-propagate> requires a
small configuration file, which must be installed in the B<gx-map>
installation directory tree as F<etc/gx-map/tgcdb.conf>.  It must be
owned by the owner of the B<gx-map> installation (see B<GX_MAP_OWNER>
in the installation configuration file), and it must have its
permissions set to either 600 or 400 (rw------- or r--------).
See F<README.TeraGrid> for details.

The B<-merge-file> option of B<gx-gen-mapfile> merges in a
F<grid-mapfile> generated by some other mechanism.  Using this in
conjunction with B<gx-propagate> means that the information in the
external F<grid-mapfile> will not be considered when interacting with
the database.

The B<-requests-log> option of B<gx-gen-mapfile> is part of an older
and more limited mechanism for propagating information across systems
within a single site.  Using this option together with B<gx-propagate>
is not recommended.

=head1 SEE ALSO

gx-map(7), gx-request(1), gx-check-requests(8), gx-propagate(8),
gx-gen-mapfile(8), gx-map-security(7), gx-db-request(8),
gx-db-check-requests(8), gx-map-db-config(5)

=head1 AUTHOR

Keith Thompson, San Diego Supercomputer Center, <kst@sdsc.edu>

=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

See the file F<LICENSE> in the B<gx-map> distribution, installed in
the F<etc/gx-map> subdirectory.
