# $Id: gx-request.1.pod,v 1.10 2006-06-09 21:43:41-07 kst Exp $
# $Source: /home/kst/gx-map-redacted/doc/gx-request.1.pod,v $

=for comment
Make sure the license text appears in the generated man pages.

=begin roff

.\" @Copyright@
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2006 The Regents of the University of California. All
.\" rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are
.\" met:
.\"
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\" notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\"
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\" notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\" documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\"
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this
.\" software must display the following acknowledgement: This product
.\" includes software developed by the Advanced Cyberinfrastructure
.\" Laboratory at the San Diego Supercomputer Center and its contributors.
.\"
.\" 4. Neither the name of the Center nor the names of its contributors
.\" may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\" without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS''
.\" AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO,
.\" THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR
.\" PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS
.\" BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR
.\" CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF
.\" SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR
.\" BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY,
.\" WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE
.\" OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN
.\" IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\" @Copyright@

=end roff

=head1 NAME

gx-request - Request a F<grid-mapfile> update

=head1 SYNOPSIS

S<gx-request -help>

S<gx-request -interactive>

S<gx-request -long-help>

=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<gx-request> is the client program for the B<gx-map> system.
It's used to submit a request for an update to the Globus grid-mapfile.

B<gx-request> may be run either in interactive mode, with the
I<-interactive> option, or with all options specified on the command
line.  Use the I<-long-help> option to display the full set of options.

The B<gx-request> command creates a request file in the
F<gx-map-data/new-requests> directory under the B<gx-map> installation
directory.  This directory is world-writable, so the B<gx-request>
command requires no special privileges.  The request file is later
validated and processed by the B<gx-check-requests> command.

=head1 OPTIONS

Option processing is done using the Perl B<Getopt::Long> module.

Options may be specified with a single or double leading '-' character.
Option names may be abbreviated to whatever is unique.  Arguments may
be separated either by a blank or by an '=' character.  For example,
"-foobar 42", "--foobar=42", and "-foob 42" would all be equivalent.

=over

=item B<-help>

Display a brief usage message and exit.

=item B<-version>

Display the software version number and exit.

=item B<-quick-add>

Add a mapping for your current certificate.  The DN is determined
by examining your current proxy certificate (B<$X509_USER_PROXY> or
F</tmp/x509up_uNNN>, where F<NNN> is your numeric UID), or, if you
don't have a current proxy, your user certificate (B<$X509_USER_CERT>
or F<$HOME/.globus/usercert.pem>).  Asks for verification before
submitting the request (unless the B<-quiet> or B<-force> option
is specified).

=item B<-quick-remove>

Remove the mapping for your current certificate.

=item B<-long-help>

Display a complete usage message and exit.  The usage message contains
descriptions of all command-line options, and is likely to be more
correct than this man page.

=item B<-interactive>

Run interactively.  Other options will be ignored.

=back

=head1 INTERACTIVE MODE

The most common operations can be performed with the B<-add-quick>
and B<-add-remove> options.  For more complex operations, interactive
mode is recommended.  This is done by executing S<C<gx-request
-interactive>> (which may be abbreviated to S<C<gx-request -int>>.

In this mode, the B<gx-request> command interactively prompts the user
to enter all the required information.  This information includes the
kind of request (add, remove, etc.), the DN (which may be entered
directly or extracted from a proxy or user certificate file), an
optional e-mail address, and an optional comment.  If B<gx-request>
is executed in interactive mode by an administrator, it may prompt
for additional information.

Once all the necessary information has been collected, B<gx-request>
will ask for confirmation before submitting the request.

=head1 MORE OPTIONS

If you don't want to run the B<gx-request> command in interactive
mode, you can specify all required information on the command line.
This is recommended only for administrative use, such as in a script
performing multiple updates in batch mode.

Exactly one of the following options may be specified: B<-interactive>,
B<-add-quick>, B<-remove-quick>, B<-add>, B<-remove>, B<-remove-dn>,
B<-remove-user>, B<-update>, B<-help>, B<-usage>, B<-long-usage>.

=over

=item B<-add>

Request a mapping to be added to the F<grid-mapfile>.

=item B<-remove>

Request a mapping to be removed from the F<grid-mapfile>.

=item B<-remove-dn>

Request that all mappings for a specified distinguished name be
removed.  Only a gx-map administrator may use this option.

=item B<-remove-user>

Request that all mappings for a specified user be removed.

=item B<-update>

Request an update of all F<grid-mapfile>s.  Normally, the system
detects when an update is required, so this option is not usually
necessary.

=item B<-quiet>

Work silently.  This implies the B<-force> option.

=item B<-force>

Apply the request without prompting for confirmation.  By default,
B<gx-request> will ask for confirmation before proceeding.

=item B<-no-admin>

Assume the user is not a gx-map administrator.  This is intended for
developer testing only.  This has no effect for a non-administrator.

=item B<-dn> I<"string">

Specify a distinguished name (also known as a subject name).
The DN should be enclosed in double quotes, since it's likely to
contain special characters (avoid single quotes since some people's
names include apostrophes).

=item B<-default-dn>

Extract the distinguished name from your current certificate.

If you have a current proxy certificate (either B<$X509_USER_PROXY> or
F</tmp/x509up_uNNN>, where NNN is your numeric UID), it will use that.
Otherwise, if you have a user certificate (either B<$X509_USER_CERT>
or F<$HOME/.globus/usercert.pem>), it will use that.  Otherwise,
you will need to specify the DN in some other way.

=item B<-certificate-file> I<file>

Extract the distinguished name from the specified X509 certificate
file.

=item B<-force-dn>

Normally B<gx-request> does some minimal syntax checks on the
distinguished name; this option overrides those checks.

=item B<-username> I<name>

Unix user name to map or unmap.  This option is for use by gx-map
administrators only.

=item B<-directory> I<dir>

Specify an alternate data directory.  This option is for use by
gx-map administrators only, and is not recommended.  The default
data directory is the F<gx-map-data> subdirectory of the B<gx-map>
installation (which is a symbolic link to the directory specified by
the B<DATA_DIR> option in the installation configuration file).

=item B<-email> I<addr>

Your contact e-mail address (optional).  This is stored in the
F<requests.log> file.  It may be used to contact you if there's a
problem with your certificate.

=item B<-no-email>

This option is ignored.  It's provided for compatibility with B<gx-map>
release 0.3.  It may be removed in a future release.

=item B<-comment> I<"string">

A comment to be added to the F<requests.log> file.  This is optional.

=item B<-source> I<string>

Specify the source of the mapping.  This option is for use by gx-map
administrators only.  The argument may consist only of letters,
digits, underscore, period, and hyphen characters ([A-Za-z0-9_.-]).
It is intended to indicate where the mapping came from.  See the
B<gx-propagate(8)> man page for more information.

=item B<-debugging>

Enable debugging output.  This is intended for developer testing only.

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

gx-map(7), gx-check-requests(8), gx-propagate(8), gx-gen-mapfile(8),
gx-map-security(7)

=head1 AUTHOR

Keith Thompson, San Diego Supercomputer Center, <kst@sdsc.edu>

=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

See the file F<LICENSE> in the B<gx-map> distribution, installed in
the F<etc/gx-map> subdirectory.
