# $Id: gx-watch-locks.8.pod,v 1.1 2006-10-06 18:51:14-07 kst Exp $
# $Source: /home/kst/gx-map-redacted/doc/gx-watch-locks.8.pod,v $

=for comment
Make sure the license text appears in the generated man pages.

=begin roff

.\" @Copyright@
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2006 The Regents of the University of California. All
.\" rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are
.\" met:
.\"
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\" notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\"
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\" notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\" documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\"
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this
.\" software must display the following acknowledgement: This product
.\" includes software developed by the Advanced Cyberinfrastructure
.\" Laboratory at the San Diego Supercomputer Center and its contributors.
.\"
.\" 4. Neither the name of the Center nor the names of its contributors
.\" may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\" without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS''
.\" AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO,
.\" THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR
.\" PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS
.\" BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR
.\" CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF
.\" SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR
.\" BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY,
.\" WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE
.\" OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN
.\" IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\" @Copyright@

=end roff

=head1 NAME

gx-watch-locks - Watch status of B<gx-map> lock files

=head1 SYNOPSIS

S<gx-watch-locks -help>

S<gx-watch-locks -version>

S<gx-watch-locks [options]

=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<gx-watch-locks>, part of the B<gx-map> system, is an administrative
command.  It checks for the existence of lock files created by several
B<gx-map> commands.

The following commands currently create lock files:

=over

=item B<gx-ca-update>

=item B<gx-check-index>

=item B<gx-check-requests>

=item B<gx-db-check-requests>

=back

Lock files are used to prevent more than one instance of a program
from executing concurrently and possibly corrupting data files.
If one of these commands dies or hangs for any reason, it can leave
a lock file in place, preventing the same command from running
again.  This can freeze updates to the F<grid-mapfile> or to the
F<grid-security/certificates> directory.

In some circumstances, a command can legitimately take a long time
to execute, so the existence of a lock file doesn't B<necessarily>
indicate a problem.  A lock file contains a brief message which
includes a time stamp, the name of the program that created it, and
the name of the host on which it's running.  This should be examined
to determine whether the lock is actually stale.

The B<gx-watch-locks> command prints a list of current lock files.
By default, lock files younger than 5 minutes are ignored, and the list
is only displayed once.  Command-line options can change this behavior.

Stale locks can be removed using the F<gx-remove-locks> command (q.v.).

=head1 OPTIONS

Option processing is done using the Perl B<Getopt::Long> module.

Options may be specified with a single or double leading '-' character.
Option names may be abbreviated to whatever is unique.  Arguments may
be separated either by a blank or by an '=' character.  For example,
"-foobar 42", "--foobar=42", and "-foob 42" would all be equivalent.

=over

=item B<-help>

Display a usage message and exit.

=item B<-version>

Display the software version number and exit.

=item B<-loop>

Rather than displaying the current locks and exiting, check
repeatedly, by default every 5 minutes.  The screen is cleared before
each redisplay.  This is suitable for running in a separate terminal
window to continuously monitor the current status.

=item B<-interval> I<seconds>

Check every I<interval> seconds rather than every 5 minutes.

=item B<-beep>

Beep if any lock is older than 5 minutes.

=item B<-directory> I<dir>

Specify a gx-map installation B<or> data directory.  The default is
the installation containing this copy of B<gx-watch-locks>.

=item B<-all>

Show all lock files.  By default, lock files younger than 5 minutes
are ignored.

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

gx-map(7), gx-remove-locks(8), gx-ca-update(8), gx-check-index(8),
gx-check-requests(8), gx-db-check-requests(8)

=head1 AUTHOR

Keith Thompson, San Diego Supercomputer Center, <kst@sdsc.edu>

=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

See the file F<LICENSE> in the B<gx-map> distribution, installed in
the F<etc/gx-map> subdirectory.
