# $Id: gx-check-db-requests.8.pod,v 1.2 2006-06-09 21:44:28-07 kst Exp $
# $Source: /home/kst/gx-map-redacted/doc/Attic/gx-check-db-requests.8.pod,v $

=for comment
Make sure the license text appears in the generated man pages.

=begin roff

.\" @Copyright@
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2006 The Regents of the University of California. All
.\" rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are
.\" met:
.\"
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\" notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\"
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\" notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\" documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\"
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this
.\" software must display the following acknowledgement: This product
.\" includes software developed by the Advanced Cyberinfrastructure
.\" Laboratory at the San Diego Supercomputer Center and its contributors.
.\"
.\" 4. Neither the name of the Center nor the names of its contributors
.\" may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\" without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS''
.\" AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO,
.\" THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR
.\" PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS
.\" BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR
.\" CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF
.\" SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR
.\" BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY,
.\" WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE
.\" OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN
.\" IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\" @Copyright@

=end roff

=head1 NAME

gx-check-db-requests - Process requests for B<TGCDB> updates

=head1 SYNOPSIS

S<gx-check-db-requests -help>

S<gx-check-db-requests [options]>

=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<gx-check-db-requests> is part of the B<gx-map> system and of
the optional B<TGCDB> (TeraGrid Central Database) subsystem.  This
subsystem specific to the TeraGrid; it may or may not be installed
on your system.

B<gx-check-db-requests> is normally run from a cron job.  It checks for
new F<db-request> files generated by B<gx-db-request>.

The B<gx-check-db-requests> command must be executed by the account
that owns the B<gx-map> installation; this is typically the "gxmap"
or "globus" account, but a different account can be configured when
the B<gx-map> system is installed.

There are three kinds of B<db-request>s, described in more detail in
the B<gx-db-request(8)> man page.

The B<gx-db-check-requests> command maintains a file,
F<gx-map-data/tgcdb-mappings>, which contains (a close approximation
of) the set of username/DN mappings currently stored in the TGCDB.
It uses this to track any changes and invoke the B<gx-request>
command as needed.

For an B<add> or B<remove> request, the specified mapping or mappings
are added to or removed from the F<tgcdb-mappings> file.

For a B<full-query> request, B<gx-check-db-requests> performs a
full query of the TGCDB to obtain a list of all current mappings,
and replaces the F<tgcdb-mappings> file with this list.

In any case, the new F<tgcdb-mappings> file is compared to the saved
previous version.  The B<gx-db-check-requests> command then invokes
C<gx-request -add ...> or C<gx-request -remove ...> for each change.
The effect of this is to keep the B<gx-map> system's idea of what
mappings currently exist synchronized with the information in the
TGCDB.

Once a F<db-request> file has been processed, it is moved
from the F<gx-map-data/new-db-requests> directory to the
F<gx-map-data/old-db-requests>.

The B<gx-check-db-requests> command can be invoked periodically from
a cron job, or it can be invoked immediately after B<gx-db-request>
is executed.  The two commands are separate because B<gx-db-request>
might be invoked asynchronously, and because it can be more efficient
to invoke B<gx-check-db-requests> once after several invocations
of B<gx-db-request>.

=head1 OPTIONS

Option processing is done using the Perl B<Getopt::Long> module.

Options may be specified with a single or double leading '-' character.
Option names may be abbreviated to whatever is unique.  Arguments may
be separated either by a blank or by an '=' character.  For example,
"-foobar 42", "--foobar=42", and "-foob 42" would all be equivalent.

=over

=item B<-help>

Display a usage message and exit.

=item B<-version>

Display the software version number and exit.

=item B<-dryrun>

Don't perform updates.

=item B<-debugging>

Enable debugging output.  This is intended for developer testing only.

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

gx-map(7), gx-db-request(8), gx-propagate(8)

=head1 AUTHOR

Keith Thompson, San Diego Supercomputer Center, <kst@sdsc.edu>

=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

See the file F<LICENSE> in the B<gx-map> distribution, installed in
the F<etc/gx-map> subdirectory.
