# $Id: gx-map-gridmap-utils.3.pod,v 1.2 2006-01-17 20:30:15-08 kst Exp $
# $Source: /home/kst/gx-map-redacted/doc/Attic/gx-map-gridmap-utils.3.pod,v $

=for comment
Make sure the license text appears in the generated man pages.

=begin roff

.\" @Copyright@
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2006 The Regents of the University of California. All
.\" rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are
.\" met:
.\"
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\" notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\"
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\" notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\" documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\"
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this
.\" software must display the following acknowledgement: This product
.\" includes software developed by the Advanced Cyberinfrastructure
.\" Laboratory at the San Diego Supercomputer Center and its contributors.
.\"
.\" 4. Neither the name of the Center nor the names of its contributors
.\" may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\" without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS''
.\" AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO,
.\" THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR
.\" PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS
.\" BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR
.\" CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF
.\" SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR
.\" BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY,
.\" WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE
.\" OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN
.\" IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\" @Copyright@

=end roff

=head1 NAME

Gridmap_Utils - A utility module for the B<gx-map> system

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The B<Gridmap_Utils> module is part of the B<gx-map> system.
The module is installed in F<lib/Gridmap_Utils.pm> under the B<gx-map>
installation directory.

This module is not intended to be used outside the B<gx-map>
system itself.  All interfaces are subject to change without notice.
The definitive documentation is the source; each function is described
there (at least briefly) in a comment block.  A few features can be
described here.

=head1 TIMESTAMPS

The B<gx-map> system depends on high-precision timestamps to determine
the order in which mapping requests are to be applied.  Most timestamps
are stored as raw Unix timestamps (seconds since 1970-01-01 00:00:00
GMT).  This may be annotated with a human-readable string of the form
S<Ddd YYYY-MM-DD HH:MM:SS UTC>, but this is ignored by the software.

For some purposes, a timestamp is stored in microsecond resolution,
using Perl's B<Time::HiRes> module.

See the source, F<Gridmap_Utils.pm>, for more details.

=head1 READING AND WRITING RECORDS

Internally, B<gx-map> stores most of its data in records implemented
as Perl hashes, or as references to Perl hashes, where the keys and
values are field names and values, respectively.

These records can be read and written to a files as plain text.
For example, this is how the F<requests.log> file is generated;
see the B<gx-map-requests-log> man page for details on the format.

A slightly different external format can be used for a single record
rather than for a list of records.  The '{' and '}' delimiters are
omitted.

The C<Read_Records()> and C<Write_Records()> functions are used to
convert between the internal format using hash references and the
external plain-text format.

=head1 CACHING MECHANISM

The B<gx-map> system, especially the B<gx-check-requests> command, uses
files downloaded from ftp or web servers.  Rather than re-downloading
the files each time they're used, the C<Cache_File()> function
implements a caching mechanism.  Cached copies of downloaded files
are stored under the F<var/cache/> subdirectory.  The name of each
cache file is derived from the URL; the mapping is similar to the
quoted-printable encoding.

The C<Cache_File()> function takes a single argument, a URL.
It returns a record (a hash reference) which includes the name of the
cached copy of the specified file as well as some status information.
If the file can't be downloaded, the client can use a previously
cached copy.  Additionial information is tracked to avoid reporting
the same error multiple times.

All downloads are peformed using the B<curl> command.  The <curl>
command is first used to check the modification time of the remote
file; if this matches that of a previously downloaded copy, it's not
downloaded again.

The B<curl> command is invoked with the C<"--insecure"> option, which
causes it to ignore any server certificates for an B<https> URL.
This is necessary (or at least convenient) for web servers that
use unrecognized certificates.  Since B<gx-ca-update> validates
the checksums and signatures for all the files it downloads, this
shouldn't create a security problem.

See the source, F<Gridmap_Utils.pm>, for more details.

=head1 ET CETERA

The B<Gridmap_Utils> module provides a number of other utility
functions dealing with user accounts, file timestamps, distinguished
name formats, e-mail notification, and error handling.

=head1 SEE ALSO

gx-request(1), gx-check-requests(8), gx-gen-mapfile(8), gx-ca-update(8), gx-map-requests-log(5)

=head1 AUTHOR

Keith Thompson, San Diego Supercomputer Center, <kst@sdsc.edu>

=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

See the file F<LICENSE> in the B<gx-map> distribution, installed in
the F<etc> subdirectory.
